This dual installer is based on two licenses: 
*	Wakanda Enterprise Subscription Agreement for 4D Mobile Expansion.
*	Wakanda Enterprise Beta Test Evaluation License Agreement.

Wakanda's dual-licensing model, meaning that the same code is released under two different licenses.
If you are using 4D Mobile to create proprietary applications for sale or for use in a commercial setting, you must (i) have purchased a 4D Mobile Expansion on 4D Store and (ii) accept the Wakanda Enterprise Subscription Agreement for 4D Mobile Expansion as described below.
Alternatively, if you wish to test Wakanda Enterprise, released under a Beta version, you must accept the Wakanda Enterprise Beta Test Evaluation License Agreement.


WAKANDA
ENTERPRISE
SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT for 4D Mobile Expansion
(January 16, 2014)

WARNING!

You should read carefully all the terms and conditions of the Agreement, as defined below, between 4D SAS, whose registered office is at 60, rue d'Alsace, 92110 Clichy La Garenne, France, (hereinafter referred to as "4D") and yourself (hereinafter referred to as "LICENSEE"); 4D and LICENSEE collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually a "Party".

This Agreement defines the terms and conditions of the Subscription related to the Software license and related Software Maintenance as defined below. 

By accepting this Agreement, either by clicking a box indicating your acceptance and/or by executing a Subscription Form that refers to this Agreement, LICENSEE agrees to the terms of this Agreement. If LICENSEE is entering into this Agreement on behalf of a company or other legal entity, it represents that it has the authority to bind such entity to this Agreement, in which case the word "LICENSEE" shall refer to such entity. If LICENSEE does not have such authority, or if LICENSEE does not agree with these terms and conditions, LICENSEE must not accept this Agreement and may not proceed with the downloading, copying, installation or any other use of the Software or any portion thereof. 


1. DEFINITIONS

The following words have a specific significance:

"Affiliates" means any entity which directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the subject entity. 

"Control", for purposes of this definition, means direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 50% of the voting interests of the subject entity. 

"Agreement" means the English version of this agreement, including its exhibit 1, any amendment thereof, the related 4D v14 LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT and the locally applicable 4D Store Terms and Conditions of Sales. In the event and to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between two or more documents which form part of this Agreement, those documents will be interpreted in the following order of priority: (i) the terms and conditions of this document, (ii) the terms and conditions of 4D v14 LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT and (iii) the locally applicable 4D Store Terms and Conditions of Sales. 

"Deploy or Deployment" means to distribute or the distribution of the Wakanda Application to End Users.

 "Developer" means a single distinct and named employee acting within the scope of her/his employment with LICENSEE or End User, and/or consultant and/or contractor acting within the scope of the services they provide for LICENSEE or on LICENSEE's behalf, for whom LICENSEE has acquired a license to use the Software for development, design or administration of a Wakanda Application. 

"Documentation" means all the electronic files and, or materials relating to technical specifications, developer's guides and user's manuals relating to the Software contained in or on the related Media.

"Environment" means in particular the computer hardware, operating system(s) ("platform(s)") and the software required for use in conjunction with the Software, as indicated on the Media and any evolution thereof which may be required for the use of Updates.

"End User" means the end user of a Wakanda Application, subject to an End User License. 

"End User License" means the license agreement relating to a Wakanda Application, between LICENSEE and an End User, which contains terms and conditions at least as restrictive as those defined in exhibit 1. 

"Intellectual Property Rights" means all present and future proprietary rights, licenses, title and interest in any intellectual property rights including (but not limited to) (i) industrial property rights, author's rights, patents, patents rights, inventions, copyrights, copyrightable rights, database rights and rights in trademarks, trade names, designs, know-how, domain names, trade secrets and confidential information (whether registered or unregistered); (ii) applications for registration and the right to apply for registration for any rights referred to in (i) above; and (iii) any other intellectual property rights or equivalent or similar forms of protection existing anywhere in the world.

"Media" means all methods through which LICENSEE obtained the Software, which include any type of media, and notably the Wakanda's web sites, 4D's Websites, Wakanda's Ftp site and/or 4D's Ftp site.

"Server" means one (1) executable instance of Wakanda Server as part of the Enterprise Deployment license.
  
"Software" means: 
Any or all of the following, as applicable, which is provided in machine-readable executable form, in English, including related Documentation, and any replacement, change, and/or Update thereto:

* Development license under section 3
Development Enterprise - the commercial versions of Wakanda Studio Enterprise, Wakanda Server Enterprise, and Wakanda Framework Enterprise

* Deployment license under section 4
Deployment Enterprise - the commercial versions of Wakanda Server Enterprise and Wakanda Framework Enterprise,

"Start Date" means the start date of the Subscription, effective as of the date of LICENSEE's acceptance of the Agreement. 

"Subscription" means the Software license granted under the Agreement and the provision of related Software Maintenance; given that the validity of the Subscription is subject to LICENSEE's acceptance of this Agreement.

"Subscription Fee" means the fee payable to 4D for the Subscription to 4D MOBILE EXPANSION and associated services/products. 

"Subscription Term" means the term of the Subscription, as specified in the section 7 "Term and Termination" of the 4D v14 LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT. 

"Updates" means the maintenance versions of the Software and/or minor and/or major updates of the Software provided as part of the Software Maintenance.

"Software Maintenance" means the information relating to the availability of Updates and the provision of such Updates, in accordance with the provisions of section 7. 

"Wakanda Application(s)" means the application(s) developed with the Software, which use(s) Wakanda Server Enterprise, or Wakanda Framework Enterprise; given that any Wakanda Application must have substantial different functionalities than the Software. In no event shall a Wakanda Application compete to the Software by notably developing without limitation: a development toolkit or library, an application builder, a web database server, a website builder that are intended for use by software, application, or website developers or designers. 

"4D Store Terms and Conditions of Sale": means the locally applicable terms and conditions that apply to any order made from 4D Store by LICENSEE for the acquisition of Software licenses. 


2. PURPOSE

The purpose of this Agreement is to define the terms and conditions whereby (i) 4D grants LICENSEE, on a non-exclusive basis, the right to use the Software under the concerned Subscription, and (ii) 4D provides LICENSEE with the related Software Maintenance.

LICENSEE's rights to use the Software are specified in this Agreement and 4D retains all rights not expressly granted to LICENSEE in this Agreement. No other express or implied rights are granted to LICENSEE relating to the Software.

4D and/or its suppliers continue(s) to be the sole owner(s) of the copy of the Software and all other copies that LICENSEE is authorized to make in accordance with this Agreement.

In no event, this Agreement may be interpreted as an agreement for sale.


3. DEVELOPMENT LICENSE

3.1 Rights granted 

3.1 General provisions
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, 4D grants LICENSEE's Developers a revocable, limited, personal, non-exclusive and non-transferable right to use the executable version of the Software for the sole purpose of designing, developing and testing an unlimited number of Wakanda Applications in accordance throughout the Subscription Term.

LICENSEE may:

- install and use the Software in the Environment, for the sole purpose of developing, designing and testing any Wakanda Application in the Environment, in strict compliance with the instructions in the Documentation and the Agreement, provided that the Software is always used within the limits of the Subscription Plan throughout the Subscription Term;

- make copies of the Software in executable code, solely for use by Developers in accordance with the terms of this section 3.1, provided that LICENSEE reproduces all the copyright, trademark and other proprietary notices which appear on or in the Software; such copies being subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

For the avoidance of doubt, a Developer may use Wakanda Studio Enterprise under the development license.

Except as otherwise stated in the Agreement, LICENSEE shall not:

- allow any other user than a Developer to use the Software as part of the development license;

- reassign the rights assigned to a Developer under this section 3.1 to another developer, without 4D prior written consent;

- reassign the rights under this section 3.1 to any other entity or person;

- transfer the license granted under this section 3.1 from one Developer to another, even in the event that the authorized Developer does not use the Software; the development license being per named user (not a floating license);

- sublicense, sell, lease, rent, share the use of the Software or otherwise transfer it, or permit any third party to use the Software for time sharing, outsourcing services, application service provider services, platform as a service or application hosting provider services and/or any cloud business. Generally, LICENSEE shall not grant any kind of rights regarding the Software or any portion thereof in any form to any third party without the prior written consent of 4D;

- modify, translate, reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, partially or completely, the Software, except as otherwise mentioned by the legal measures in force. Nevertheless, LICENSEE shall ask 4D for the information which is necessary to achieve the interoperability of the Software with another program and this, before any decompilation;

- remove or alter any Software identification, proprietary notice, trademarks, warnings or disclaimer statements affixed to, incorporated in or otherwise applied in connection with the Software;

- use the Software in violation of any Country, Treaty, Federal or State law, regulation or rules, including laws with respect to misuse or improper use of information.

LICENSEE ensures that all Developers shall be informed of the terms and conditions contained herein and warrants that such Developers agree to be bound by terms at least as restrictive as the development license terms as stated in this section 3.1 prior to any use of the Software. Such undertaking constitutes a prerequisite to any use of the Software by the concerned entity or person. In any event, LICENSEE guarantees the compliance with the terms of the Agreement, in particular this section 3.1 by these third parties (and any concerned employee), and shall be liable for such third party and/or employee's behavior conflicting with the Agreement.

3.2 Exceptions
Notwithstanding the above, LICENSEE is allowed to modify Wakanda Framework Enterprise for its own internal development purposes exclusively, it being agreed that such development shall be done at its own risk and under its sole responsibility. Except as otherwise stated in this section 3.2, all the provisions of section 3.1 apply to Wakanda Framework Enterprise. In particular, LICENSEE is not allowed to sublicense, sell, lease, rent, share the use of the Wakanda Framework Enterprise or otherwise transfer it.


4. DEPLOYMENT LICENSE
	
During the Subscription Term, LICENSEE may Deploy on a royalty free basis an unlimited number of Wakanda Applications per one (1) Server, and for an unlimited number of End Users, subject to an End User License, provided that such Wakanda Applications use the unchanged Software except with regards to the modified Wakanda Framework Enterprise as defined in section 3.2 and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, in particular without violating the restrictions set forth below in section 4 of the Agreement.

LICENSEE acknowledges and agrees that Wakanda Studio is excluded from the scope of the Deployment license, and thus from the scope of Software definition, for the sole purpose of this section 4. 

Under the Deployment license, LICENSEE expressly refrains from deploying the Software separately and/or from using it for any other purpose than deploying the Wakanda Application. 

For the avoidance of doubt, the use of the Software for testing purposes is allowed as part of the development license. 

Under no circumstances, shall LICENSEE:

- use the Software alone or as part of any application other than Wakanda Applications; 

- use more than one (1) Server under each corresponding Subscription Plan; 

- modify the Software, except for the Wakanda Framework Enterprise;

- redistribute the Software other than by including the Software or a portion thereof within Wakanda Applications;

- redistribute the Software as part of an open source Deployment of any Wakanda Application; 

- redistribute Wakanda Studio in any manner;

- use the Software for a Wakanda Application that is intended for software or application development purposes, in particular for platform as a service business and/or any cloud business and generally for any competitive offer to the Software; 

- remove or alter any Software identification, proprietary notice, trademarks, warnings or disclaimer statements affixed to, incorporated in or otherwise applied in connection with the Software; in this context, LICENSEE shall not Deploy Wakanda Applications in anyway that implies that the Software is a proprietary product of LICENSEE or of any other entity than 4D.

LICENSEE agrees to enforce End User Licenses and use all practical means available, both technical and contractual, to control the restricted use of the Software under each End User License entered into with an End User. In this context, it shall ensure that the Software may not be reused alone or by any application other than Wakanda Applications and will inform its customers accordingly.

The Deployment of Wakanda Applications is under LICENSEE's sole responsibility. In no circumstances, shall 4D be liable for such Deployment and more generally for the commercialization and the licenses relating to Wakanda Applications. 
	

5. DOCUMENTATION RIGHTS 

LICENSEE may (i) print the Documentation for use with the Software, (ii) transfer the HTML or PDF files to a server for use on LICENSEE's Intranet, and/or (iii) transfer the Documentation on a hard drive for LICENSEE's use with the Software.

LICENSEE may not (i) distribute the Documentation, (ii) transfer the Documentation in any manner that causes it to be accessed on the Internet, and/or make derivative works of the Documentation.

In any case, it is LICENSEE's responsibility to make sure that any user of the Software complies with the terms of this Agreement.


6. THIRD PARTIES' RIGHTS

The Software may include one or more libraries, files or other items intended to help LICENSEE to use the Software. 4D grants LICENSEE the right to use these libraries, files and other items provided LICENSEE complies with the terms of this Agreement and any terms specific to the libraries or files. LICENSEE should refer to the Documentation and the "Copyright Information" included in the Software and at the following URL http://wakanda.org/credits for additional information and terms.

LICENSEE is informed that the Software may give access to a library that allows LICENSEE to code certain information in the Wakanda Applications developed with the Software. LICENSEE agrees that some laws do not allow or limit the use of the algorithms contained in this library and agrees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations related to such use.


7. SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE

4D shall provide Software Maintenance services related to the Software according to the conditions as described in section 2.4.11 "4D Mobile Expansion" of the 4D v14 LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT.


8. WARRANTIES AND DISCLAIMERS 

Generally, each Party warrants that it has validly entered into the Agreement and is empowered to do so.

LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" AND THAT 4D MAKES NO WARRANTY AS TO ITS USE OR PERFORMANCE. 4D MAKES NO  WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) OF ANY KIND, AND 4D DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, INTEGRATION, SATISFACTORY QUALITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. WITHOUT LIMITATION OF THE FOREGOING, 4D DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE FROM BUGS AND/OR ERRORS AND/OR THAT THE FUNCTIONS INCLUDED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET LICENSEE'S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE OR THAT ALL ERRORS WILL BE CORRECTED.

THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO CHOICE AND USE OF THE SOFTWARE AS WELL AS THE RESULTS OBTAINED WITH THE SOFTWARE IS WITH LICENSEE.

Further, it is LICENSEE's responsibility to take the necessary steps for the protection of its data.

For the avoidance of doubt, LICENSEE agrees that the Software is obtained through download at its own discretion and risk and that LICENSEE is responsible for any damage to its computer system or loss of data that results from the downloading of the Software.


9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 

LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT 4D MAY ONLY BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT DAMAGES, PROVIDED THAT LICENSEE HAS ESTABLISHED A DIRECT CAUSAL LINK BETWEEN THE ALLEGED DAMAGE AND THE EVIDENCE OF A BREACH OF THE AGREEMENT BY 4D.

NEITHER 4D NOR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN THE DESIGN, THE PRODUCTION, OR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT OR SPECIAL DAMAGES CAUSED TO LICENSEE, ANY USER OR THIRD PARTY, EVEN IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE INTERRUPTION OF THE GOOD ORDER WORK OF THE SOFTWARE, THE LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA, LOSS OF BRAND IMAGE, INCREASE OF OVERHEADS OR ANY OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS ARISING FROM THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR INABILITY TO USE IT EVEN IF 4D HAS BEEN NOTIFIED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 

4D shall not be responsible to LICENSEE and/or End User and/or any third party, for the Deployment license and generally the commercialization and the use of any Wakanda Application. LICENSEE shall indemnify 4D from any claim by an End User and any third party related to such Wakanda Application.

IN ANY CASE 4D'S LIABILITY SHALL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT AS STATED IN SECTION 4.1 OF 4D v14 LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT.

LICENSEE acknowledges that (i) the above limitation of liability reflects the allocation of the risks under the Agreement and the economical balance required by the Parties, and that (ii) the Agreement would not have been concluded without such limitation.

It is expressly agreed that any claim for damages against 4D arising in connection with the Agreement will be time-barred twelve (12) months after the event that generated that claim.


10. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS 

10.1 LICENSEE acknowledges and agrees that all Intellectual Property Rights in connection with the Software are the exclusive property of 4D. Subject to the limited rights expressly granted under the Agreement, 4D (and/or its licensors) reserve(s) all rights and interests in and to the Software, in particular all related Intellectual Property Rights. No rights are granted to LICENSEE under the Agreement other than those expressly granted by the Agreement.

This Agreement does not include any license or rights on 4D and/or its suppliers' trademarks or other proprietary rights notices. LICENSEE shall not assert any right, license, or interest in 4D and/or its suppliers' trademarks or any words or designs that are confusingly similar to such marks. 

LICENSEE shall not change the legal notices relating to copyright and other intellectual and industrial property privileges on or in the Software. Any reproduction whether in whole or in part of the Software is only allowed on the absolute condition that it contains all the legal specifications of the Software property.

10.2 4D declares that to its knowledge (i) nothing stands to the signature of this Agreement, (ii) the Software does not constitute an infringement to any pre-existing creation. 

10.3 LICENSEE shall promptly notify 4D of any unauthorized use or any infringement of the Software, of which LICENSEE has knowledge. Should 4D decide to institute legal action based on LICENSEE's notification, LICENSEE shall provide 4D with any assistance that may be reasonably required by 4D.

10.4 4D shall defend and/or settle, at its own costs, pursuant to any claim brought against LICENSEE alleging that the Software provided under the terms of this Agreement infringes any Intellectual Property Rights, provided that LICENSEE:

- promptly notifies 4D in writing of any such claim, and
- promptly tenders the control of the defense and settlement of any such claim to 4D, and
- shall cooperate with 4D in defending or settling such claim.

If a claim or a potential claim for infringement is to be brought against LICENSEE, or if in the opinion of 4D the Software may become the subject of any claim for infringement, then 4D shall, at its option and expense, either (i) replace the Software with reasonably equivalent software or (ii), if this is not practicable, refund the Subscription Fee paid with regards to the Subscription and terminate the concerned Subscription.

4D shall pay damages finally awarded pursuant to any claim brought against LICENSEE alleging that the Software infringes any Intellectual Property Rights, including reasonable LICENSEE's defense costs (notably lawyer's fees), it being agreed that 4D's entire liability with respect to any claim regarding the intellectual property rights of any third party relating to the Software, shall not exceed, in any case, the amount defined in section 9.

4D shall have no liability for: 
- the use of other than the then-current release of the Software, 
- the modification of the Software by LICENSEE or any third party,
- the use of the Software other than as set forth in its Documentation and permitted herein,
- the use of the Software with another hardware, another operating system and/or another software that those which constitute the Environment. 

This section 10 states 4D's entire obligation with respect to any claim regarding the infringement of intellectual property rights or of another property right of any third party.


11. FINANCIAL CONDITIONS

11.1 Subscription Fee 

Prior to deploy any Wakanda Application, LICENSEE shall pay in advance to 4D the Subscription Fee, given that the contractual period begins on the Start Date. The Agreement is considered as a firm order of the Subscription for the Subscription Term and the corresponding amounts are fully due whatever the deployment made (or not) of the Wakanda Application by LICENSEE.

LICENSEE's payment obligations are non-cancellable and fees paid are non-refundable. 

11.2 Taxes 

LICENSEE shall pay or reimburse all local taxes (value added taxes or any withholding taxes), duties, excise taxes and assessments arising in connection with the Subscription under the Agreement or provide 4D with an exemption certificate upon 4D's request. If such exemption certificate is challenged or held invalid by any taxing authority then LICENSEE agrees to pay all resulting expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs), fines and penalties provided that 4D provides prompt written notice of such dispute. 


12. CONFIDENTIALITY AND NON-DISCLOSURE
LICENSEE shall consider as strictly confidential any data, information or knowledge, whatever their form or nature, and on whatever media, disclosed to it by 4D in performing the Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "Confidential Information"), and agrees that it shall not give or disclose any Confidential Information to any third party.
LICENSEE may disclose Confidential Information only to those persons allowed to receive such Confidential Information for the exclusive purpose of performing the Agreement and who agree to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement. LICENSEE undertakes to make such abovementioned persons sign a non-disclosure agreement containing the same level of obligation as the provisions of this section 12.
Confidential Information does not include information, documents and/or tools which:
- was part of the public domain at the time of their disclosure or become part of the public domain without any breach to the provisions of this section 12;
- result from internal knowledge of LICENSEE without any breach to its obligation of confidentiality, or has been obtained through a third party, not bound by an obligation of confidentiality;
- is required to be disclosed by a judicial or administrative Court order which binds LICENSEE.
The obligation of non-disclosure shall remain in force five (5) years after the termination of this Agreement, given that for all confidential information relating to 4D's intellectual property rights, this obligation shall remain valid during the term of their legal protection.

LICENSEE expressly agrees that 4D has the right to publicly announce the 4D/LICENSEE relationship and to use its trademark and logo as a business reference.


13. SUBSCRIPTION TERM, TERMINATION, EFFECTS AT THE END OF THE AGREEMENT

13.1 Subscription Term 

Unless terminated early in accordance with section 13.2, the Subscription starts on the Start Date and is granted for the Subscription Term. 

13.2 Termination 

Each Party may terminate the Agreement according to the conditions as stated in section 7 "Term and Termination" of 4D v14
LICENSE OF USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT. 

However, 4D may also terminate immediately the Agreement by sending a written notice to LICENSEE - by registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt - in the event that (i) LICENSEE breaches sections 3 or 4 of the Agreement and/or that (ii) LICENSEE has not paid any invoiced Subscription Fee related to the Agreement.

13.3 Termination effects

In addition to the terms stated in section 13.1, the expiration or the termination of the Subscription for any reason whatsoever entails that LICENSEE ceases any Development or Deployment of any Wakanda Applications.

The termination of the Agreement does not prevent 4D from claiming for any further damages.

LICENSEE agrees that the Subscription Fee paid under any Subscription is not refundable and that the expiration or termination of the corresponding Subscription for any reason whatsoever shall not relieve LICENSEE from paying any amount due at the date of the termination pursuant to this Agreement.

Upon termination of the Agreement for any reason, such termination shall relieve 4D from any of its obligations related to the Agreement, notably the Software Maintenance, given that LICENSEE shall stop using the Software, destroy or return the Software and the Documentation and any copy made whether in whole or in part, and return the product number to 4D.

LICENSEE shall certify by means of a written document duly signed by a legal representative that the provisions of the present section 13.3 have been fulfilled within a time limit of five (5) days from the date of termination.

In addition, sections 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, and 15 shall survive any termination for any reason whatsoever for the term necessary to give them full force.


14. AUDIT

LICENSEE permits 4D to perform either itself or by any representative any audit or control in order to verify that LICENSEE complies with all provisions of this Agreement, it being agreed that LICENSEE shall provide any information requested by 4D regarding the Agreement execution, without any delay and by writing.

If the audit reveals a non-compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and/or a discrepancy with the information given by LICENSEE, LICENSEE shall pay all 4D's reasonable costs relating to the audit and this, without prejudice to other rights and 4D's recourse.

This provision shall remain in force two (2) years after the termination of the Agreement for any reason whatsoever.


15. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

It is LICENSEE's responsibility to comply with any applicable French, European or International export control laws and regulations. LICENSEE shall not directly or indirectly transfer the Software to any country to which such transfer would be prohibited by any applicable export control laws or would be subject to an export license or any administrative authorization, without having firstly obtained such license or authorization. Further, LICENSEE warrants that LICENSEE is not a national or a resident of a country to which exporting the Software is not allowed by virtue of any Export laws or regulations.

In compliance with the French law No 78-17 of January 6, 1978, as amended by the law No 2004-801 of August 6, 2004, LICENSEE is entitled to a right of access, modification and suppression of all personal data which concerns LICENSEE. To do so, LICENSEE may contact 4D at info@4d.com.

More generally, the Parties shall comply with any applicable law and regulation, in particular related to any personal data protection.
Unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the files, data, messages and digitized records stored in the Parties' data processing systems shall be admitted as proof of the facts and communications between the Parties, provided that the transmitting Party may be identified and that such materials are established and stored under conditions which permit to warrant their integrity. Notwithstanding the above provisions, all notices pertaining to the Agreement shall be in writing and either personally delivered or sent via postage prepaid certified mail which can be tracked, addressed to the other Party. All notices shall be effective upon delivery to the notice address.
LICENSEE shall not assign, contribute, or transfer - whether in whole or in part, free of charge or against payment, for any reason and under any form whatsoever - any of its rights and obligations under the Agreement, without the prior written consent of 4D. 
4D may assign, contribute or transfer its rights and obligations under the Agreement to any third party. In case of assignment or transfer of the Agreement pursuant to the conditions defined in this section, the assignee or the successor will be automatically bound by the Agreement. 
4D may subcontract its contractual obligations in whole or in part, it being agreed that 4D shall remain solely responsible for the execution of the contractual obligations as stated in the Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between 4D and LICENSEE relating to the Software and supersedes any prior purchase order, communications, advertising or representations concerning the Software.

No change or modification to this Agreement will be valid unless a written amendment signed by LICENSEE and an authorized officer of 4D.

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable upon a definite legal or reglementary provision or a statutory or judicial determination, the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

The waiver by 4D of one breach or default hereunder does not constitute the waiver of any subsequent breach or default.

A printed version of this Agreement under electronic form and any warning notice delivered under electronic form by 4D shall be accepted in the course of any legal proceedings regarding the execution of this Agreement.

The relationship between 4D and LICENSEE is that of LICENSOR/LICENSEE. In all matters relating to the present Agreement, LICENSEE will act as an independent party. 

This Agreement will be governed by French law and any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be settled by adjudication before the Commercial Court of Nanterre, France, including in case of summary proceeding, plurality of defendants or action on a warranty.

Except as otherwise stated in this document or expressly agreed between the Parties, the English language version of this document and its exhibit one (1) shall be the version which defines the relationship between the Parties. English will be the official language used in all communication between them. 

LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES TO HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AGREEMENT PRINTED ABOVE.

Should LICENSEE have any questions concerning this Agreement or wish to request any information from 4D, please contact 4D or the local 4D subsidiary by connecting to the following web page: www.4d.com/company.international.html 


* U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS: 
Wakanda Framework/Wakanda Framework Enterprise, Wakanda Server/Wakanda Server Enterprise, Wakanda Studio/Wakanda Studio Enterprise and documentation are commercial in nature. The Software and Documentation are "Commercial Items", as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. P2.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation", as such terms are defined in 48 C.F.R. P252.227-7014(a)(5) and 48 C.F.R. P252.227-7014(a)(1), and used in 48 C.F.R. P12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. P12.212, 48 C.F.R. P252.227-7015, 48 C.F.R. P227.7202 through 227.7202-4, 48 C.F.R. P52.227-14, and other relevant sections of the Code of Federal Regulations, as applicable, 4D's computer software and computer software documentation are licensed to United States Government end users with only those rights as granted to all other end users, according to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. 

Publisher is 4D located at 60, rue d'Alsace, 92110 Clichy, France. 

Wakanda is a registered trademark of 4D. All other trade names and trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.




EXHIBIT 1
END USER LICENSE
MINIMUM TERMS RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE


I. Definitions 

"Environment" means in particular the computer hardware, operating system(s) ("platform(s)") and the software required for use in conjunction with the Software, as indicated on the media and any evolution thereof which may be required for the use of Software updates.

"Intellectual Property Rights" means all present and future proprietary rights, licenses, title and interest in any intellectual property rights including (but not limited to) (i) author's rights, patents, patents rights, inventions, copyrights, copyrightable rights, database rights and rights in trademarks, trade names, designs, know-how, domain names, trade secrets and confidential information (whether registered or unregistered); (ii) applications for registration and the right to apply for registration for any rights referred to in (i) above; and (iii) any other intellectual property rights or equivalent or similar forms of protection existing anywhere in the world.

"Software" means any or all of the following, as applicable, which is provided in machine-readable executable form, in English, including related Documentation, and any replacement, change, and/or Update thereto:

* Deployment license 
Deployment Enterprise - the commercial versions of Wakanda Server Enterprise and Wakanda Framework Enterprise.  

"Wakanda Application(s)" means the application(s) developed with the Software, which use(s) Wakanda Server Enterprise, or Wakanda Framework Enterprise; given that any Wakanda Application must have substantial different functionalities than the Software. In no event shall a Wakanda Application shall compete to the Software by notably developing without limitation: a development toolkit or library, an application builder, a web database server, a website builder that are intended for use by software, application, or website developers or designers. 


II. Characteristics of the End User License

Non-exclusive End User License 
The End User License is granted on a non-exclusive basis. 

Personal End User License 
The End User License is personal to the End User and is for internal purpose exclusively. The End User may not assign, share or otherwise transfer the End User License. 

Limitation to the Environment and to the language as indicated on the media

The End User License is granted by LICENSEE for the Environment for which the End User License is granted and for the language indicated on the media, exclusively.

Limitations to the rights granted to the End User under the End User License; End User License term 

The End User License is strictly limited to the rights expressly granted in the End User License and granted for the term of license relating to each concerned Wakanda Application. 

Restrictions of Use: 

The End User may not:

- use the unchanged Software for another purpose than for running the concerned Wakanda Application;

- sublicense, sell, lease, rent, share the use of the Software or otherwise transfer it, or permit any third party to use the Software for time sharing, outsourcing services, application service provider services, platform as a service or application hosting provider services and/or any cloud business. Generally, the End User shall not grant any kind of rights regarding the Software or any portion thereof in any form to any third party;

- directly or indirectly modify, translate, reverse-engineer, decompile or disassemble, partially or completely, the Software, or authorize third parties to do so, except as otherwise mentioned by the legal measures in force. Nevertheless, the End User shall ask LICENSEE, which shall obtain the prior approval of 4D, for the information which is necessary to achieve the interoperability of the Software with another program and this, before any decompilation;

- copy the Software, except one (1) copy of the Software in the executable form, provided that the End User reproduces all the copyright, trademark, and other proprietary notices which appear on or in the Software, such copy being subject to the terms and conditions of the End User License; and generally

- remove or alter any Software identification, proprietary notice, trademarks, warnings or disclaimer statements affixed to, incorporated in or otherwise applied in connection with the Software; in this context, the End User shall not deploy the Wakanda Applications in anyway that implies that the Software is a proprietary product of the End User or of any other entity than 4D.

The End User acknowledges and agrees that the End User License does not include any support and/or maintenance services relating to the Software; such services being subject to a separate agreement. 

Third Parties' Products:
The Software may include one or more third parties' libraries, files or other items intended to help the End User to use the Software. 
The End User is granted the right to use these libraries, files and other items, provided the End User complies with the provisions of this agreement and any terms specific to the libraries or files which may be included in the documentation and/or the "Credits" included in the Software.


III. Intellectual Property Rights

The End User acknowledges and agrees that all Intellectual Property Rights in connection with the Software are the exclusive property of 4D. Subject to the limited rights expressly granted under the End User License, 4D (and/or its licensors) reserve(s) all rights and interests in and to the Software, in particular all related Intellectual Property Rights. 

No rights are granted to the End User other than those expressly granted by the End User License.

The End User License does not include any license or rights on 4D and/or its suppliers' trademarks or other proprietary rights notices. 
The End User shall not change the legal notices relating to copyright and other intellectual and industrial property privileges on or in the Software. Any reproduction whether in whole or in part of the Software is only allowed on the absolute condition that it contains all the legal specifications of the Software property. 


IV. WARRANTY, LIABILITY AND DISCLAIMERS

THE END USER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" AND THAT 4D MAKES NO WARRANTY AS TO ITS USE OR PERFORMANCE. 4D MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER BY STATUTE, COMMON LAW, CUSTOM, USAGE, OR OTHERWISE) OF ANY KIND, AND 4D DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR MERCHANTABILITY, INTEGRATION, SATISFACTORY QUALITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. WITHOUT LIMITATION OF THE FOREGOING, 4D DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE IS FREE FROM BUGS AND/OR ERRORS AND/OR THAT THE FUNCTIONS INCLUDED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET THE END USER'S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE OR THAT ALL ERRORS WILL BE CORRECTED.

THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO CHOICE AND USE OF THE SOFTWARE AS WELL AS THE RESULTS OBTAINED WITH THE SOFTWARE IS WITH THE END USER.

Further, it is the End User's responsibility to take the necessary steps for the protection of its data.

4D IS NOT RESPONSIBLE TO THE END USER AND/OR ANY THIRD PARTY, FOR THE COMMERCIALIZATION AND THE USE OF ANY WAKANDA APPLICATION; SUCH COMMERCIALIZATION BEING UNDER THE END USER'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY.

SUBJECT TO ANY APPLICABLE LEGAL PROVISION, IN NO EVENT SHALL 4D BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, AND WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST DATA, LOST PROFITS OR OTHER ECONOMIC LOSS ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE END USER'S USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE. 

This limitation of liability shall apply regardless of the form of action, whether in contract or tort. This disclaimer shall apply whether or not 4D or its licensors have been informed of the possibility of such damages.


V. Confidentiality, non-disclosure

The structure and the organization of the Software are trade secrets of 4D and/or its licensors that the End User shall not disclose. The confidentiality obligation set forth in this section shall remain in effect for five (5) years after the End User License terminates for any reason whatsoever.


VI. Termination; expiration/termination effects

The End User is aware that 4D may terminate without prior notice the End User License relating to the Software, in case of breach by the End User of any of its obligations under such license agreement and/or termination of the Subscription agreement between 4D and LICENSEE.

Upon termination of the End User License for any reason whatsoever, the End User shall immediately (i) stop using the Software, (ii) destroy or return the Software and the Documentation and any copy made whether in whole or in part, and return the product number to 4D; being agreed that the obligations that are described as surviving after the termination of the End User License shall remain in effect.

VII. Third beneficiary

As the publisher of the Software, 4D is considered as a third beneficiary to the agreement. In this context, 4D is entitled to enforce these minimum terms between LICENSEE and the End User.


VIII. Compliance with law

The End User shall comply with any applicable law and regulation, in particular related to any personal data protection.


WAKANDA ENTERPRISE BETA TEST
EVALUATION LICENSE AGREEMENT


WARNING!

You should read carefully all the terms and conditions of the Agreement, as defined below, between 4D SAS, whose registered office is at 60, rue d'Alsace, 92110 Clichy La Garenne, France, (hereinafter referred to as "4D") and yourself (hereinafter referred to as "LICENSEE"); 4D and LICENSEE collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually a "Party". By pressing on the button "Accept", you agree to be bound by all the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
You acknowledge having been informed that the execution of the Agreement implies that you comply with the eligibility criteria defined by 4D SAS.
In addition, you acknowledge having been informed that (i) the Software is a prototype and therefore, it has not been completely tested and/or tuned and that (ii) the execution of the Agreement does not imply any obligation for 4D SAS to release the Software and/or its successive versions as a "product".
If you do not agree with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, you are not allowed to Use the Software.

1. DEFINITIONS

In the Agreement, the following words have a specific significance:

"Authorized User(s)": the LICENSEE's employees who are authorized to use the Software http://forums/4D/fr/, through a strictly personal and confidential access code within the limit of five (5) Authorized Users.

"Authorized Environment": the computer hardware, operating system and/or the software required for use in conjunction with the Software in object code, indicated at "http://doc.wakanda.org/Installing-Wakanda/System-Requirements.200-693041.en.html".

"Confidential Information": except otherwise stated in the Agreement, the Software (in particular its structure, organization, specifications, performance, and any results of the evaluation), the ftp access link to the Software , and any information and/or data in whatever form (notably in oral form), communicated or brought to LICENSEE knowledge.

Shall not be deemed Confidential Information any information:   
- held by LICENSEE, without any confidential nature before the date of communication thereof, as shown in a valid way by LICENSEE,  notably that such information has been communicated to the latter by a third party, in a lawful way and in good faith; 
- which has come into the public domain at the time of its communication or since its communication, without any breach of its non-disclosure obligation by LICENSEE under the Agreement;
- which is developed independently by LICENCEE, provided that the latter proves that it has not used any Confidential Information of 4D, as shown in a valid way by LICENSEE; 

- which is disclosed pursuant to judicial order or lawful requirement of governmental agency or by operation of law.

"Documentation": all the electronic documentation files and/or the documentation contained, if any, in Beta version in or on the Media through which LICENSEE obtained the Software.

"Evaluation/Use": the use of the Software for the exclusive purpose of testing and evaluating the Software pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

"Media": all methods through which LICENSEE obtained the Software, which include the web sites of 4D SAS. 

"Software": the prototype (alpha or Beta version) of the Wakanda Enterprise Server and/or Wakanda Enterprise Studio software, in the language and for the Authorized Environment as defined at http://forums.4D.fr, which has not been completely tested, validated, and commercialized, in machine readable form that may be downloaded at http://forums.4D.fr/, through a strictly personal and confidential access code for each Authorized User, subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The Software includes any copy made of it, and - possibly - its related Documentation, and any replacement or change provided under the Agreement.


2. RIGHTS GRANTED

2.1. SOFTWARE

4D grants LICENSEE with a royalty-free, non-exclusive, personal, and non-transferrable right to use the Software.

To access and use the Software, any Authorized User must identify itself at http///forums.4d.fr. Authorized User must identify itself through a personal and confidential access code. Such access code cannot be otherwise transferred or shared. The entire risk as to the use of the access code is with LICENSEE. 


LICENSEE is allowed to download, install and use the Software:

i) for its own needs and for evaluation and testing purposes exclusively;

ii) within the limit of the number of Authorized Users, i.e five (5); it being agreed that in any event, the Software may be installed on one (1) computer exclusively;

iii) in the Authorized Environment.

In addition, LICENSEE may make one (1) copy of the Software for back up purpose and in executable form exclusively; such copy being subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. 

LICENSEE shall not:
i) use the Software for any production purposes, in particular for development purposes;

ii) sublicense, sell, lease, rent, share the use of the Software or otherwise transfer it, or permit any third party to use the Software for consulting services, time sharing, service bureau, outsourcing services, application service provider services, or application hosting provider services and more generally LICENSEE shall not grant any kind of rights regarding the Software or any portion thereof in any form to any third party without the prior written consent of 4D;

iii) transfer the Software to another environment than the Authorized Environment;

iv) modify, translate, reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, partially or completely, the Software, except as otherwise mentioned by the legal measures in force. Nevertheless, in the case of LICENSEE whishes obtain information to achieve the interoperability of the Software, LICENSEE shall ask 4D for such information, before any decompilation in order to know if such information has not previously been readily available;
 
v) modify, or alter the copyright identifications, trademarks and/or any other intellectual property notice of 4D and/or its licensors, appearing in and/or on the Software;

vi) disclose to any third party, outside the dedicated forum as referred in section 1, the results of any benchmark or other test of the Software, without the prior written consent of 4D;

vii) use the backup copy of the Software for any purpose other than to replace the original copy in the event it is destroyed or becomes defective;

viii) use the Software in violation of any law, regulation or rules, including laws with respect to protection of personal data.

2.2. ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTATION RIGHTS

LICENSEE may:

i) print the Documentation on electronic format exclusively for evaluation of the Software;

ii) transfer the HTML files to a server exclusively for use on the LICENSEE's Intranet; and

iii) transfer the Documentation on electronic format on a hard drive exclusively for evaluation of the Sofware.

LICENSEE may not:

i) distribute the Documentation to any third party;

ii) transfer the Documentation in any manner that causes it to be accessed on the Internet;

iii) use the Documentation - even partially - for any other purposes than those defined in the Agreement.

2.3. OTHER RIGHTS

The Software may include one or more libraries, files or other items intended to help LICENSEE to use the Software. 4D grants LICENSEE the right to use these libraries, files and other items provided LICENSEE complies with the terms of this Agreement and any terms specific to the libraries or files.

LICENSEE should refer to the Documentation and the "Read me" file included in the Software for additional information and terms.

LICENSEE is informed that the Software may give access to a library that allows LICENSEE to code certain information in the applications developed with the Software. LICENSEE agrees that some laws do not allow or limit the use of the algorithms contained in this library and agrees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations related to such use.
In any case, it is LICENSEE's responsibility to make sure that any user of the Software complies with the terms of this Agreement.


3. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The Software is an original creation and the exclusive ownership of 4D or its licensors. All 4D product names are registered trademarks of 4D. 
All other trade names and trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.

This is a license Agreement and NOT an agreement for sale.
 
4D and/or its licensors continue to be the sole owner(s) of the copy of the Software and all other copies that LICENSEE is authorized to have or make in accordance with this Agreement; it being agreed that LICENSEE shall reproduce all the proprietary notices in any copy of the Software - partial or whole - made by LICENSEE and that such copies are subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

LICENSEE's rights to use the Software are specified in this Agreement and 4D retains all rights not expressly granted to LICENSEE in this Agreement. No other express or implied rights are granted to LICENSEE relating to the Software.


4. LICENSEE'S OBLIGATIONS

In consideration of the rights granted, LICENSEE endeavors to provide promptly 4D with reports relating to all errors and bugs of the Software and any improvements recommended relating to the Software and Documentation; it being that such recommendation does not imply any obligation of any kind for 4D.

All reports, designs and specifications made by LICENSEE under this Section shall be the sole property of 4D and this, as a counterpart of the rights granted by the Agreement.
 

5. EXCLUSION OF WARRANTY
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED FOR EVALUATION PURPOSES ONLY AND "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.

4D does not provide any warranty for the use, the functionality and the performances of the Software. It doesn't certify either that the Software is free from bugs and/or errors. More specifically, 4D does not warrant that the functions included in the Software will meet LICENSEE's requirements or that the operation will be uninterrupted. The entire risk as to the choice of the use of the Software is with LICENSEE. It is LICENSEE's responsibility to take the necessary steps for the protection of its data.

Further, 4D does not warrant that it will market the Software in the same version as the one which is the subject of the Agreement, nor in a modified version.

Should the Software become a marketable "product", the execution of a software license agreement is necessary to use it for production purposes. This Agreement does not imply that 4D SAS has any obligation regarding the execution of such software license agreement.

LICENSEE acknowledges and agrees that the Agreement does not include any support and/or maintenance services.
 

6. DISCLAIMER AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

LICENSEE acknowledges and agrees that it is solely responsible for (i) installation and use of the Software, (ii) the correct use of its connection data by the Authorized Users and any consequence of a wrong use of it and (iii) the adequate protection of its data.

IN NO EVENT, SHOULD 4D SAS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO LICENSEE'S COMPUTER SYSTEM OR LOSS OF DATA THAT RESULTS FROM THE DOWNLOADING OF THE SOFTWARE, OR FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, DIRECT OR INDIRECT DAMAGES CAUSED TO LICENSEE, ANY USER OR THIRD PARTY, EVEN IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED, TO THE INTERRUPTION OF THE GOOD ORDER WORK OF THE SOFTWARE, THE LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF DATA OR ANY OTHER FINANCIAL LOSS ARISING FROM THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR INABILITY TO USE IT EVEN IF 4D HAS BEEN NOTIFIED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Further, 4D does not control, or accepts any responsibility relating to downloading of Software through websites or online services proposed by third parties. 
The foregoing does not affect or prejudice LICENSEE's statutory rights.

7. NON-DISCLOSURE
LICENSEE shall use any Confidential Information, for the exclusive purpose of evaluation of the Software within the limits as defined in the Agreement.
LICENSEE may communicate the Confidential Information only to its employees allowed to receive such Confidential Information for the exclusive purpose of performing the Agreement and who agree to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement.
LICENSEE shall not disclose to any third party the Confidential Information and/or copy the Confidential Information for purposes other than those defined in the Agreement.
In general, LICENSEE shall treat the Confidential Information with the same level of protection it applies to its own confidential information, or at least with no less than reasonable care in such a way to guarantee the confidentiality of the Confidential Information.
This non-disclosure obligation shall survive during ten (10) years after the termination or expiration of the Agreement for any reason whatsoever.  

8. TERM, TERMINATION, AND EFFECT OF TERMINATION
8.1. Except in case of early termination, this evaluation license is effective as the downloading of the Software by LICENSEE, and remains valid until 4D decides to release the Software and no later than October 15, 2013 
8.2. Any Party may terminate the Agreement at any time and at its sole discretion, subject to a prior notice to the other Party.
8.3. Any LICENSEE's non-compliance or failure to perform its contractual obligations, expiration or termination of the Agreement is without prejudice to any damages and indemnification that 4D could be entitled to.
8.4. At the end of the Agreement for any reason whatsoever, LICENSEE shall stop using the Software and in general any Confidential Information, destroy or return it, and any copy made whether partial or whole, to 4D. Upon 4D's request, LICENSEE shall immediately certify by means of a written document duly signed by a legal representative that the provisions of the present clause have been respected.
In addition, all the obligations that should survive the expiration or termination of the Agreement by nature, shall remain applicable, for the term necessary to give them full force.

9. AUDIT
LICENSEE permits 4D to perform either itself or by any representative any audit or control in order to verify that LICENSEE complies with all provisions of this Agreement, in particular those relating to terms and conditions of use of Software. 
If such audit reveals non-conformities with the provisions of the Agreement, LICENSEE shall pay all reasonable costs relating to the audit and this, without prejudice to the other remedies of 4D.
 This provision shall survive for two (2) years following the end of the Agreement for any reason whatsoever.

10. PERSONAL DATA
In compliance with the law No 78-17 of January 6, 1978, as amended by the law No 2004-801 of August 6, 2004, LICENSEE is entitled to a right of access, modification and suppression of al personal data which concerns LICENSEE. To do so, LICENSEE may contact 4D SAS - Administrative and Financial Department - 60, rue d'Alsace, 92110 Clichy, France or by e-mail to the following electronic address: info@4D.com.

11. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
11.1. The Parties are independent contractors. In no event shall the Agreement establish any mandate, franchise or any type of legal entity.
11.2. LICENSEE is not allowed to assign or otherwise its rights and obligations pursuant to the Agreement, without the prior written consent of 4D.
11.3. It is LICENSEE's responsibility to comply with any applicable export control laws and/or regulations. LICENSEE shall not directly or indirectly transfer the Software to any country to which such transfer would be prohibited by any applicable export control laws or would be subject to an export license or any administrative authorization, without having obtain first, such license or authorization. Further, LICENSEE warrants that LICENSEE is not a national or a resident of a country to which exporting the Software is not allowed by virtue of any export laws or regulations.
11.4. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between 4D and LICENSEE relating to the Software and supersedes any prior purchase order, communications, advertising or representations concerning the Software. No change or modification to this Agreement will be valid unless it is in writing, and is signed by LICENSEE and an authorized officer of 4D.
 11.5. If any term of the Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such term shall be modified so as to be legal, valid and enforceable. All the other provisions of the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, unless the purpose of the Agreement is consequently affected.
11.6. The waiver or the failure by either Party to claim a breach by the other Party of any of its obligations under the Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of such obligation for the future. Any waiver shall only be effective subject to a written amendment (other than preprinted forms or general conditions) signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. 
11.7. Unless otherwise stated by French law, the files, data, messages  digitized records, and use of data connexion, stored in the 4D's data processing systems shall be admitted as proof of the facts and communications between the Parties, provided that the transmitting Party may be identified and that such materials are established and stored under conditions which permit to warrant their integrity. Notwithstanding the above provisions, all notices pertaining to the Agreement shall be in writing and sent by any written means., addressed to the other Party. All notices shall be effective upon delivery to the notice address.
The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of France. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Agreement or to the breach, termination or invalidity thereof, shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commercial Court of Nanterre (Tribunal de Commerce de Nanterre) France.
11.8 The Agreement is in the English language only, which language shall be controlling in all respects. All communications made or given pursuant to the Agreement shall be in the English language, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties.
LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES TO HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE AGREEMENT.

Should LICENSEE have any questions concerning this Agreement or wish to request any information from 4D SAS, please contact 4D SAS 33 (0)1 40 87 92 00 (e-mail: info@4d.fr).

* Notice to United States Government members: Use, duplication or disclosure by the US Government is subject to restrictions stated in paragraph (c) (1) (ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at 252.227-7013.

All Wakanda and/or 4D product names are registered trademarks of 4D SAS. All other trade names and trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.
